In this lecture we will learn how we can stylize each team out elements by using the style attribute
and style tag in each team Moul the style tag allows us to specify how elements should be displayed
in the browser a style element starting with an opening tag and ends with a closing tag the contents
of a style element define the different style rules for how elements should be rendered to the screen.
HTL documents can have more than one style tag.
In fact you can use as many as you want within your HGL document.
When using a style tag you can specify an element by tag type ID or class ID.
Let's take a look at an example of each of these.
Say we have a paragraph element and its content is the text that we want to apply the style to.
We can then use the style tag to specify a style for all the elements within the tags.
For example let's take a closer look at the syntax here.
First we put an opening style tag to store all four style element.
Next we put the tag name that we want to stylize.
In this case we specify P meaning that any content on our Web page within the paragraph tags will be
affected by the style we type here.
An opening curly brace is used to start the body of our style for this element.
Then we specify the style attribute we want to modify.
In this case we want to change the color of the text.
We then put a colon and then the value of the attribute.
In this case we want the text to be changed to the color green.
A semi-colon signifies the end of this statement and then we close all four style with the closing curly
brace and closing style tag.
We will go to the web browser and drag our team out file over to see the result of the code we just
typed
Let's go back to the Visual Studio code editor and build on this example.
Notice that if we add another text element within a paragraph tag it is also affected by our changes.
For example adding the following line and then running the code in the web browser results in this line
also being displayed with a color of green.
If we wanted this change to affect only one of the elements on our Web page we could specify that the
style only be applied to an element with a certain ID value.
Let's make the following changes to our code.
First add an id attribute to the opening tag for a first element and assign the id attribute value of.
I am g 1 next.
Let's give our second element an idea of I am G-2 by doing the same thing adding an id attribute with
a value of.
I am G-2 to our second element.
Finally we want to change our style elements so that it only affects the first line of text.
So instead of using P to specify what to apply the style to we will use a hash tag or pound symbol followed
by the ID of the element which is one in this case the pound symbol tells our style code to look for
an element with that ID and apply the style to it.
We can go back to the browser and run the code we just typed to see the result.
Let's go back to the editor and learn about classes the third way that we can group elements to assign
styles to their Mysti use classes and H.T. M-L we can use the class attribute to group elements together
logically.
Let's take a look at an example.
Say we have four elements each of which is enclosed in a paragraph tag.
Now let's say we wanted to change elements one in three to red and Elements 2 and 4 to blue.
We could assign each an ID and then specify a style for each individual element.
But what if we wanted to make sure that any styles added to Element 1 were also added TELLEMENT 3 hard
coding ideas would not be the most elegant solution in this case.
As a result we would want to group elements 1 in 3 into their own class and then assign elements to
and for their own class.
We could do so by doing the following.
Then we would define a style for each class.
We would first put an opening style tag and then put in our style logic to reference the name of a class.
Put a period or dot before the class name.
This tells HVM that you're using a class to identify your elements as opposed to a tag name or ID.
Notice that we can specify styles for more than one class within the same style element.
We don't need to have opening and closing style tags all over our code.
Rather we can keep our code clean and readable by using one style tag and then putting in all of the
information to style each of our classes or elements and there we can go back to the browser and run
the code to see the result.
Aside from just changing the color of our text there are several other style attributes we can use to
modify the display of our HVM all elements.
For example we can use the font size attribute to change the font size of.
In this example.
We will give Class 1 a font size of 50.
This will make any text that belongs to class 1 have a font size of 50 pixels.
Let's see the result of this code by going back to the web browser and running the code.
Then we will go back to the editor and look at another example.
We could also use the background color property to specify a background color for a web page for example
if we want to change the background color to black.
We could do the following.
This will give any elements within the body tag of our each team document a background color of black
to see this effect.
We will go to the browser and drag in our HVM will file the style tag is very useful and HVM now as
we can specify how the elements in each Chmela are rendered to the screen the color font size and background
color attributes that we looked at.
Here are just a few examples of the Starla attributes that you can use to control the look and display
of your HVM old web pages in the next lecture.
We will learn about how we can format text using HMO.